Whitney Houston Eight American Music Awards Make - Jet (USA) - February 28, 1994 - page 56-59
February 28, 1994 | Jet (USA) | Volume 85 | Issue 0021-5996 | Page 56-59

Superstar Whitney Houston, on the strength of her mega-hit Bodyguard soundtrack, recently pulled in eight
American Music Awards, making her the top female winner of all time. She also tied Kenny Rogers on the all-
time list with 19 total awards.

Ms. Houston, accompanied to the show at Los Angeles' Shrine Auditorium by husband Bobby Brown, baby
Bobbi Kristina and her parents, had a near-sweep of the awards for the phenomenal single I Will Always Love
You and the entire Bodyguard soundtrack.

In addition to tying Rogers' all-time mark, her eight wins also ties her with Michael Jackson for the most AMAs
ever won in a single year.

In addition to cleaning up awards, she also brought the house down with her soulful, stirring medley
renditions of I Love You Porgy form Porgy and Bess and the show-stealing And I Am Telling You I Am Not
Going form Dreamgirls.

Ms. Houston won in the categories of: favorite pop/rock female, favorite soul/rock female, favorite pop/rock
single (I Will Always Love You), favorite soul/r&b single (I Will Always Love You), favorite pop/rock album (The
Bodyguard) favorite soul/r&b album and favorite adult contemporary album.

To top it all, Ms. Houston was presented the special American Music 'Award of Merit' "in recognition of her
outstanding contributions to the musical entertainment of the American public." That award was presented
by music legend Stevie Wonder. Previous winners include Ella Fitzgerald, Berry Gordy Jr., James Brown,
Wonder and Chuck Berry.

The presentation by Wonder brought tears to Ms. Houston's eyes as she thanked her parents, the brothers
who made fun of her, the record company and the countless fans that have supported her.

The show marked the first time Ms. Houston's almost year-old daughter was seen by a broad audience. She
was brought out onstage during the acceptance of one of the awards. Ms. Houston initially attempted to
hand her daughter over to father Bobby but changed her mind. "I couldn't leave her, she started crying." Baby
Bobbi grabbed the microphone while her mother accepted the award.

Ms. Houston also wore two (one for performing) sexy, clinging gowns that displayed a super-trim figure,
putting to eternal rest rumors that she couldn't lose the additional fat gained during pregnancy.

When it became obvious to all on hand that Whitney would get plenty of exercise all evening long, she jokingly
told the audience "Guess I just should stay up here."

Always viewed as a major talent, Ms. Houston surprised just about everyone with the incredible success of
the film and music of The Bodyguard. The movie, about a talented singer (Ms. Houston) who hires a
bodyguard (Kevin Costner) after finding out that she is the object of a crazed fan, earned in excess of $90
million and the single I Will Always Love You broke one record after another. It stayed at the ton of Billboard's
single chart for 14 weeks, more than any other song in musical history. The single also sold approximately 5
million copies.

The soundtrack also spawned other major hits, including I'm Every Woman (now the theme for "Oprah"), I
Have Nothing and Run To You.

Ms. Houston recently wound down her national tour. She is set to perform one of those mega hits on the
Grammy Awards telecast and her growing legion of fans can look forward to the release of her greatest hits
album that will be released sometime during the summer.

Hollywood, thanks to the megabucks of Bodyguard, is banging on her door with more movie offers. Ms.

Houston, however, is taking her time and has made no commitments. It's a good bet, though, that whatever
she takes on will be a major hit.

Copyright (c) 1994 Johnson Publishing Company, Inc.

